.TH MKPYLINK 1 "2026-01-01" "pyname" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mkpylink \- create symlinks/hardlinks for files with Chinese characters using pinyin names
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkpylink
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmkpylink\fR creates symlinks or hard links for files containing Chinese characters, using pinyin names for the links. It uses \fBpinyinize\fR for conversion and supports all pinyinize formatting options.
.PP
Files without Chinese characters are skipped. The original filename extension is preserved. Symlinks use relative paths when created in the same directory as the target.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--pascal\fR
Convert to PascalCase (default).
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--camel\fR
Convert to camelCase.
.TP
\fB-u\fR
Add underscore separator (snake_case).
.TP
\fB-k\fR, \fB--kebab\fR
Add hyphen separator (kebab-case).
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--space\fR
Add space separator.
.TP
\fB-U\fR, \fB--uppercase\fR
Convert to UPPERCASE.
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--lowercase\fR
Convert to lowercase.
.TP
\fB-t\fR
Include tone numbers.
.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB--force\fR
Overwrite existing links.
.TP
\fB-n\fR, \fB--nop\fR
Show what would be done without actually creating links.
.TP
\fB--hard\fR
Create hard links instead of symbolic links.
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Suppress informational messages.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR
Show detailed progress, including elapsed time for conversion.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show help message and exit.
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Show version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Create symlink:
.RS
.PP
mkpylink 你好.txt
.br
Creates: NiHao.txt -> 你好.txt
.RE
.PP
Create hard link:
.RS
.PP
mkpylink --hard 你好.txt
.br
Creates hard link: NiHao.txt
.RE
.PP
Dry run:
.RS
.PP
mkpylink -n 你好.txt
.br
Shows: Would create symlink: NiHao.txt -> 你好.txt
.RE
.PP
Force overwrite:
.RS
.PP
mkpylink -f 你好.txt
.br
Overwrites existing link if present
.RE
.PP
With formatting options:
.RS
.PP
mkpylink -k -l 你好.txt
.br
Creates: ni-hao.txt -> 你好.txt
.RE
.PP
Verbose output:
.RS
.PP
mkpylink -v 你好.txt
.br
Shows conversion progress and elapsed time
.RE
.SH NOTES
The pinyin conversion may be slow on first use due to jieba dictionary loading. Use \fB-v\fR to see elapsed time for each conversion.
.PP
Symlinks use relative paths when created in the same directory as the target file, making them more portable.
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success, 1 on error.
.SH AUTHOR
Lenik <pyname@bodz.net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR test-zh (1),
.BR pinyinize (1),
.BR ren2py (1)

