.TH PINYINIZE 1 "2026-01-01" "pyname" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pinyinize \- convert Chinese text to pinyin
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pinyinize
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fITEXT\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpinyinize\fR converts Chinese text to pinyin with various formatting options. If no text is provided, it reads from stdin.
.PP
By default, text is converted to PascalCase (e.g., "你好" becomes "NiHao").
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--pascal\fR
Convert to PascalCase (default). Example: "你好" -> "NiHao"
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--camel\fR
Convert to camelCase. Example: "你好" -> "niHao"
.TP
\fB-u\fR
Add underscore separator (snake_case). Example: "你好" -> "ni_hao"
.TP
\fB-k\fR, \fB--kebab\fR
Add hyphen separator (kebab-case). Example: "你好" -> "ni-hao"
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--space\fR
Add space separator. Example: "你好" -> "ni hao"
.TP
\fB-U\fR, \fB--uppercase\fR
Convert to UPPERCASE. Example: "你好" -> "NIHAO"
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--lowercase\fR
Convert to lowercase. Example: "你好" -> "nihao"
.TP
\fB-t\fR
Include tone numbers. Example: "你好" -> "Ni3Hao3"
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show help message and exit.
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Show version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Basic conversion (PascalCase):
.RS
.PP
echo "你好世界" | pinyinize
.br
Output: NiHaoShiJie
.RE
.PP
With tone numbers:
.RS
.PP
pinyinize -t 你好世界
.br
Output: Ni3Hao3Shi4Jie4
.RE
.PP
Camel case:
.RS
.PP
pinyinize -c 你好世界
.br
Output: niHaoShiJie
.RE
.PP
Kebab case:
.RS
.PP
pinyinize -k 你好世界
.br
Output: ni-hao-shi-jie
.RE
.PP
Snake case:
.RS
.PP
pinyinize -u 你好世界
.br
Output: ni_hao_shi_jie
.RE
.SH NOTES
The first conversion may be slow due to jieba dictionary loading. Subsequent conversions are faster.
.SH AUTHOR
Lenik <pyname@bodz.net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR test-zh (1),
.BR ren2py (1),
.BR mkpylink (1)

