.TH REN2PY 1 "2026-01-01" "pyname" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ren2py \- rename files containing Chinese characters to pinyin
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ren2py
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBren2py\fR renames files containing Chinese characters to pinyin. It uses \fBpinyinize\fR for conversion and supports all pinyinize formatting options.
.PP
Files without Chinese characters are skipped. The original filename extension is preserved.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--pascal\fR
Convert to PascalCase (default).
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--camel\fR
Convert to camelCase.
.TP
\fB-u\fR
Add underscore separator (snake_case).
.TP
\fB-k\fR, \fB--kebab\fR
Add hyphen separator (kebab-case).
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--space\fR
Add space separator.
.TP
\fB-U\fR, \fB--uppercase\fR
Convert to UPPERCASE.
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--lowercase\fR
Convert to lowercase.
.TP
\fB-t\fR
Include tone numbers.
.TP
\fB-n\fR, \fB--dry-run\fR
Show what would be renamed without actually renaming.
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Suppress informational messages.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR
Show detailed progress, including elapsed time for conversion.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show help message and exit.
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Show version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Rename files:
.RS
.PP
ren2py 你好.txt 世界.txt
.br
Renames: 你好.txt -> NiHao.txt, 世界.txt -> ShiJie.txt
.RE
.PP
Dry run:
.RS
.PP
ren2py -n 你好.txt
.br
Shows: Would rename: 你好.txt -> NiHao.txt
.RE
.PP
With formatting options:
.RS
.PP
ren2py -k -l 你好.txt
.br
Renames: 你好.txt -> ni-hao.txt
.RE
.PP
Verbose output:
.RS
.PP
ren2py -v 你好.txt
.br
Shows conversion progress and elapsed time
.RE
.SH NOTES
The pinyin conversion may be slow on first use due to jieba dictionary loading. Use \fB-v\fR to see elapsed time for each conversion.
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success, 1 on error.
.SH AUTHOR
Lenik <pyname@bodz.net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR test-zh (1),
.BR pinyinize (1),
.BR mkpylink (1)

